## SEIM Tools

### Logs : A log is a record of events that occur within an organization's systems and networks.

- **Firewall logs** : A record of attempted or established connections from incoming and outgoing traffic within the network. 

- **Network logs** : A record of all computers and devices that enter and leave the network. It also records connections between devices and services on the network.

- **Server logs** : A record of events related to services such as websites, emails, or file shares. It includes actions such as login, password, and username requests.

### SEIM Tools : 
An application that collects and analyzes log data to monitor critical activities in an organization. It provides real-time visibility, event monitoring and analysis, and automated alerts.
- It can collects and analyses log data,
- It can also be used to create dashboards,
- It can also tracks metrics like response time, availability, etc.

## Deployment Model:
- **On-premises/ Self-Hosted**: Deployed within an organization's own data center.
- **Cloud Hosted**: Hosted in a cloud environment, providing flexibility and scalability.
- **Hybrid**: A combination of on-premises and cloud deployment.

## SIEM examples

### 1.Splunk
- Splunk Enterprise: Self hosted
- Splunk Cloud: Cloud hosted.
  
#### Dashboards
- **Security posture**: Displays the last 24 hours of an org's notable security related events.
- **Executive summary**: Analyzes and monitors the overall health of the organization over time.
- **Incident review**: Highlights higher risk items that need attention.
- **Risk analysis**: Shows changes in risk related activity such as a user logging in outside of normal working hours or unusually high network traffic from a specific computer.

### 2.Google Chronicle
- Cloud native
  
#### Dashboards
- **Data ingestion & health**: Shows data being ingested.
- **IOC matches**: Shows top threats / risks / vulns.
-**Main**: Shows overall sumary.

- **Rule detections**: Show stats around incidents that are notable.

## 3.Suricata
- Open source network analysis and threat detection software.
